docs: add 'Helpful Form' patterns page (#2060)
agriculturegovau/agds-next: docs/content/patterns/helpful-form-content/index.mdx

We recommend the use of one link to give a clear path to the right information for the user’s context. Links to content pages should be opened in the same tab. If a user is in the middle of a process, such as filling in a form, opening links into the same tab can cause a user to lose their place. In this case it’s preferable to open a link into a drawer or new tab. Clearly indicate this with an icon: `ExternalLinkIcon` for new tabs and `MoveLeftIcon` for drawers. Provide appropriate announcements for screen readers.

```jsx live
() => {
	const [isDrawerOpen, openDrawer, closeDrawer] = useTernaryState(false);
	return (
		<>
			<Details iconBefore label="Why should I invite a new staff member?">
				<Flex flexDirection="column" gap={1}>
					<Text as="p">
						Inviting individuals to the service can help you streamline your
						operations. You can then assign them a role, so they can access
						necessary information and tasks.
					</Text>
					<Text as="p">
						Learn more about{' '}
						<Button
							iconAfter={MoveLeftIcon}
							onClick={openDrawer}
							size="sm"
							variant="text"
						>
							inviting a staff member
						</Button>

> 					</Text>

Author: The spacing between the text and icon looks too big(compared to the design should be `0.25rem` rather than `0.5rem`). Should this be placed as a child of the button?

![Screenshot 2025-06-12 at 2 10 29 pm](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/08d03dd5-286c-4464-9216-c5882e19f8c9)

Author: Updated to `TextLink`. Is this the standard pattern devs should be using?

---
title: Helpful form content
description: Providing the right content in forms can help users understand and complete forms quickly and efficiently. The location, amount and type of content provided is important.
relatedComponents: ['details', 'drawer']
relatedContent: ['content-styles']
---

## Headings

Headings play a crucial role in user-friendly form page design. They establish hierarchy and help users understand the purpose and structure of a form.

> The H1 heading should clearly state the purpose or primary action of the form. This purpose should be reflected in the primary button label. For example, where the H1 is ’Sign in to your account’, the primary button label might be ’Sign in’.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The H1 heading should clearly state the purpose or primary action of the form. This purpose should be reflected in the primary button label. For example, where the H1 is ‘Sign in to your account’, the primary button label might be ’Sign in’.
```

Supporting headings should be used to organise sections logically. This is important for making complex forms easier to understand and complete.

## Introductory paragraphs

Use a concise, introductory paragraph of 1 or 2 sentences, immediately after the H1. This provides the user with any further context they need to understand the purpose of the form.

## Requirements list

List anything the user will need to complete the form. This helps users prepare and reduces the risk of abandoned forms.

> Give the list a help title such as ’What you will need’. This should appear before any forms fields. For a multi-page form, this should appear on a ’Getting started’ page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Give the list a help title such as ‘What you will need’. This should appear before any forms fields. For a multi-page form, this should appear on a ‘Getting started’ page.
```

Present requirements as a scannable list of specific items. Use plain language to ensure a good understanding of what they will need.

## Hint text

> Use hint text for the smallest piece of information that will help users to understand each form input or control and complete forms. This could be to mark a field as optional or to let them know the required format for a field.

Reviewer: @atlee025. Spoke to @Suzanne-aff and she's happy with this change

> The hint prop provides help that’s relevant to the majority of users, like how their information will be used, or where to find it.

Reviewer: This example doesn't feel right
```suggestion
The `hint` prop provides help that’s relevant to the majority of users, like how their information will be used, or where to find it.
```

Don’t use long paragraphs or lists in hint text. Screen readers announce the entire text when users interact with the form element. This could frustrate users if the text is long.

> Don’t include links within hint text. While screen readers will read out the link text when describing the field, they will not tell users that the text is a link.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Don’t include links within hint text. While screen readers will read out the link text when describing the field, they will not not be informed that it is a link.
```

```jsx live
<TextInput
	label="Phone number"
	hint="Any Australian mobile or landline. For example, 0444 111 222 or 02 9988 7766"
/>
```

## Details

The Details component reveals more information when opened. Use the Details component for information that is useful for some users, but not needed by everyone to complete a form. Do not use the Details component if all users need the information to complete a form.

Details should only be used for one piece of content. We recommend keeping this to a paragraph or short list. If more than one piece of content is required, use a Drawer.

If the guidance pertains to a list, provide the list, then link to more detailed information on all items.

> We recommend the use of one link to give a clear path to the right information for the user’s context. Links to content pages should be opened in the same tab. If a user is in the middle of a process, such as filling in a form, opening links into the same tab can cause a user to lose their place. In this case it’s preferable to open a link into a drawer or new tab. Clearly indicate this with an icon: `ExternalLinkIcon` for new tabs and `MoveLeftIcon` for drawers. Provide appropriate announcements for screen readers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend the use of one link to give a clear path to the right information for the user’s context. Links to content pages should be opened in the same tab. If a user is in the middle of a process, such as filling in a form, opening links into the same tab can cause a user to lose their place. In this case, it’s preferable to open a link into a drawer or new tab. Clearly indicate this with an icon: `ExternalLinkIcon` for new tabs and `MoveLeftIcon` for drawers. Provide appropriate announcements for screen readers.
```

```jsx live
() => {
	const [isDrawerOpen, openDrawer, closeDrawer] = useTernaryState(false);
	return (
		<>
			<Details iconBefore label="Why should I invite a new staff member?">
				<Flex flexDirection="column" gap={1}>
					<Text as="p">
						Inviting individuals to the service can help you streamline your
						operations. You can then assign them a role, so they can access
						necessary information and tasks.
					</Text>
					<Text as="p">
						Learn more about{' '}
						<Button
							iconAfter={MoveLeftIcon}
							onClick={openDrawer}
							size="sm"
							variant="text"
						>
							inviting a staff member
						</Button>
					</Text>
				</Flex>
			</Details>

> 			<Drawer

Reviewer: But yeah, we can't really have a working example like this because that's not how you'd use it… 🤔

						</Text>
					</Callout>
				</Stack>
			</Drawer>
		</>
	);
};
```

## Drawer

A Drawer is a panel that slides in from the right side of the screen. The Drawer is overlayed on top of the main area of the page to capture the user’s attention while keeping the context of the current task.

Drawers can be used to filter data, for small subtask forms and to provide supporting information to users when completing a task.

Avoid lengthy content that would result in scrolling.

Explore the [Drawer](/components/drawer) options to see if they might be suitable.

```jsx live
() => {
	const [isDrawerOpen, openDrawer, closeDrawer] = useTernaryState(false);
	return (
		<>
			<Button onClick={openDrawer}>Open Drawer</Button>
			<Drawer
				isOpen={isDrawerOpen}
				onClose={closeDrawer}
				title="Drawer title"
				actions={
					<ButtonGroup>
						<Button onClick={closeDrawer}>Primary</Button>
						<Button variant="secondary" onClick={closeDrawer}>
							Secondary
						</Button>
						<Button variant="tertiary" onClick={closeDrawer}>
							Tertiary
						</Button>
					</ButtonGroup>
				}
			>
				<Text as="p">Drawer body area.</Text>
			</Drawer>
		</>
	);
};
```

> ## Open in new tab

Reviewer: Why don't we have an example using `<TextLinkExternal>`?

Author: Added a new example for External link

Opening information in a new tab allows users to read related help content, without concern that they may lose their form data.

Outside of forms, avoid opening links in new tabs. This can be confusing and disorienting for users. This is especially true for those who have trouble perceiving visual content. The exception would be if they are logged into a secure area and navigating away would require them to log in again.

If the supporting information won’t fit into a drawer without scrolling, then open this form help content into a new tab.

## Related guidance

- [Hint](/components/field#hint) – Short, in context help.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - [Hint](/components/field#hint) – Short, in context help.
> 
> - [Links](/content/content-styles#links) – Also known as hyperlinks, connects users to helpful, related content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Field hints](/components/field#hint) – Short, in context help.
- [Content styles - links](/content/content-styles#links) – Also known as hyperlinks, connects users to helpful, related content.
```

	hint="Any Australian mobile or landline. For example, 0444 111 222 or 02 9988 7766"
/>
```

## Details

The Details component reveals more information when opened. Use the Details component for information that is useful for some users, but not needed by everyone to complete a form. Do not use the Details component if all users need the information to complete a form.

Details should only be used for one piece of content. We recommend keeping this to a paragraph or short list. If more than one piece of content is required, use a Drawer.

If the guidance pertains to a list, provide the list, then link to more detailed information on all items.

We recommend the use of one link to give a clear path to the right information for the user’s context. Links to content pages should be opened in the same tab. If a user is in the middle of a process, such as filling in a form, opening links into the same tab can cause a user to lose their place. In this case, it’s preferable to open a link into a drawer or new tab. Clearly indicate this with an icon: `ExternalLinkIcon` for new tabs and `MoveLeftIcon` for drawers. Provide appropriate announcements for screen readers.

```jsx live

> () => {

Reviewer: Need to add this comment to the top of the snippet:

>This implementation is for documentation purposes only. Use `<ArticleLink>` from ag.common/help-reference to handle drawers with help information

Author: Added in [dced75](https://github.com/agriculturegovau/agds-next/pull/2060/commits/dced75a4b1c589866d5eb39b90084b29d0449fd2)

							Call <strong>02 9481 1122</strong> (9am to 5pm AEST Monday to
							Friday)
							<br />
							Email{' '}
							<TextLink href="mailto:emailaccount@yourgov.gov.au">
								emailaccount@yourgov.gov.au
							</TextLink>
						</Text>
					</Callout>
				</Stack>
			</Drawer>
		</>
	);
};
```

## Drawer

A Drawer is a panel that slides in from the right side of the screen. The Drawer is overlayed on top of the main area of the page to capture the user’s attention while keeping the context of the current task.

Drawers can be used to filter data, for small subtask forms and to provide supporting information to users when completing a task.

Avoid lengthy content that would result in scrolling.

Explore the [Drawer](/components/drawer) options to see if they might be suitable.

```jsx live
() => {
	const [isDrawerOpen, openDrawer, closeDrawer] = useTernaryState(false);
	return (
		<>
			<Text>
				Learn more about{' '}
				<Button variant="text" onClick={openDrawer}>
					understanding access requests
				</Button>{' '}
				for your staff
				<Box
					css={{
						display: 'inline',
						marginLeft: '0.25rem',
						position: 'relative',
						top: 3,
					}}
				>

> 					<MoveLeftIcon size="sm" weight="regular" />

Author: Updated to match previous example using `TextLink` and moved icon. Added `, Opens in a side drawer` with `VisuallyHidden`

[dced75](https://github.com/agriculturegovau/agds-next/pull/2060/commits/dced75a4b1c589866d5eb39b90084b29d0449fd2)

Drawers can be used to filter data, for small subtask forms and to provide supporting information to users when completing a task.

Avoid lengthy content that would result in scrolling.

Explore the [Drawer](/components/drawer) options to see if they might be suitable.

```jsx live
() => {
	/** import { VisuallyHidden } from '@ag.ds-next/react/a11y'; */
	const [isDrawerOpen, openDrawer, closeDrawer] = useTernaryState(false);
	return (
		<>
			<Text as="p">
				Learn more about{' '}
				<TextLink
					href="/help/access-requests"
					onClick={(event) => {
						if (event.metaKey) return;
						event.preventDefault();
						openDrawer();
					}}
				>
					understanding access requests
					<VisuallyHidden>, Opens in a side drawer</VisuallyHidden>
					<Box
						as="span"
						css={{
							display: 'inline',
							marginLeft: '0.25rem',
							position: 'relative',
							top: 3,
						}}
					>
						<MoveLeftIcon size="sm" weight="regular" />
					</Box>
				</TextLink>{' '}

> 				for your staff

Reviewer: I don't think we should put anything after the link, otherwise the sentence is "Learn more about understanding access requests, Opens in a side drawer for your staff
```suggestion
```

> 				for your staff

Author: Updated and updated drawer title too

[d9b483](https://github.com/agriculturegovau/agds-next/pull/2060/commits/d9b483ab16128578b17445613753e1f186be8427)
